add information on deployments (#6631)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/workers/platform/deployments.md

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Deployments
---

# Deployments

{{<Aside type="note">}}

Deployments are currently in Public Beta.

{{</Aside>}}

Deployments are a set of static historical ‘snapshots’ of your Worker. They include the code, configuration, and bindings associated with your Worker. A change to any of these will trigger a new deployment on Cloudflare’s network.

Only **one** deployment is active at any time. Currently this is the latest deployment. The active deployment is accessible via any of your configured custom domains, routes, service bindings, schedules, and your optional `workers.dev` preview.

> You can view a list of your deployments in the Cloudflare dashboard under the **‘Deployments’** tab within any Worker’s detail view. You can also use the `wrangler deployments` command to list out the most recent deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can view a list of your deployments in the Cloudflare dashboard > **Workers** > **your Worker project** > **Deployments**. You can also use the `wrangler deployments` command to list out the most recent deployments.
```

> ### Deployments are triggered by:
> 
> * Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the Cloudflare dashboard
> * Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the REST API
> * Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the CLI via [wrangler publish](/workers/wrangler/commands#publish)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deployments are triggered by:

* Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the Cloudflare dashboard.
* Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the REST API.
* Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the CLI via [wrangler publish](/workers/wrangler/commands#publish).
```

## Interacting with Deployments

### wrangler publish

The [`wrangler publish`](/workers/wrangler/commands#publish) command will output information about the most recent deployment created.

![wrangler publish](../media/wrangler-publish-output.png)

### wrangler deployments

> The [`wrangler deployments`](/workers/wrangler/commands#deployments) command will output information about the most recent deployments.

Reviewer: This and `publish` description are extremely similar? Is this intentional? I know the images are different but still.

### Deployments in the dashboard

The Deployments tab of your Cloudflare dashboard will include information about historical deployments, and your Worker’s detail page will now indicate information about the most recently deployed and currently active deployment.

<!-- ### Metadata binding

Deployment information is optionally available directly within your Worker code. This information is presented as a Metadata binding, and can be configured at any custom variable name. To configure in dashboard, head to your Worker > Settings > Variables > Metadata binding, and click ‘Add binding’. Optionally configure a variable name (e.g. CF_METADATA).

Once configured, your Worker will be able to access metadata on the specified variable name. For example:

```
export default {
	fetch(req, env, ctx) {
		return new Response(JSON.stringify(env.CF_METADATA.deployment.id))
	}
}
```

The Metadata binding object definition is as follows:

```
{
	name: string,
	deployment: {
		id: string,
		timestamp: datetime
	}
}
```  -->

## Creating a new Deployment

New Deployments will be created whenever you change code, configuration, or bindings.

> Updates to code can be as small as a simple whitespace change. Any changes to code will trigger a new deployment.

Reviewer 2: Maybe say `wrangler publish` will create a new deployment even if there are no changes made to code or bindings

Reviewer 3: That feels like documenting a something that isn't intentional behavior. We should consider making it something that doesn't happen rather than documenting it.

> Updates to bindings include a change to the value or variable name of a binding, or any CRUD operation on an individual binding. Notably, this does not include changes to the target resource itself – only the binding (e.g., changing the code of a Worker “B” that is connected via a Service binding from Worker “A” will not trigger a new deployment on Worker “A”).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updates to bindings include a change to the value or variable name of a binding, or any CRUD operation on an individual binding. Notably, this does not include changes to the target resource itself. For example, changing the code of a Worker B that is connected via a service binding from Worker A will not trigger a new deployment on Worker A. Only changes to the service binding between Worker A and Worker B will trigger a new deployment.
```

Changes to configuration include:

* Changing a Worker’s usage model
* Changing a Worker’s secret or environment variable names and values

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe explicitly state that changing triggers such as routes/cron will not result in a deployment. Might help clarify it for users who expect that to be the case

> ## Author and Source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Author and source
```

When you deploy changes to your Worker, Cloudflare will track the user, token, or interface from which your code was last deployed. This is useful to understand and audit who or what is making changes to your applications.

> The author of a deployment is available in the Cloudflare dashboard, visible via [wrangler documentation](/workers/wrangler/commands#deployments) command, and accessible in [Cloudflare’s REST API](https://api.cloudflare.com/).

Reviewer: `wrangler documentation` command? or `wrangler deployment` command? is `wrangler documentation` a new command that hasn't been documented yet?

> The author of a deployment is available in the Cloudflare dashboard, visible via [wrangler documentation](/workers/wrangler/commands#deployments) command, and accessible in [Cloudflare’s REST API](https://api.cloudflare.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The author of a deployment is available in the Cloudflare dashboard, visible via [`wrangler deployments`](/workers/wrangler/commands#deployments) command, and accessible in [Cloudflare’s REST API](https://api.cloudflare.com/).
```

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Deployments
---

# Deployments

> Deployments are a set of static historical ‘snapshots’ of your Worker. They include the code, configuration, and bindings associated with your Worker. A change to any of these will trigger a new deployment to be made on Cloudflare’s network.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Deployments are a set of static historical ‘snapshots’ of your Worker. They include the code, configuration, and bindings associated with your Worker. A change to any of these will trigger a new deployment on Cloudflare’s network.
```

> Only **one** deployment is active at any time – always the latest deployment. That deployment is accessible via any of your configured custom domains, routes, service bindings, schedules, and your optional workers.dev preview.

Reviewer 4: Does workers.dev need to be `workers.dev`?

> Only **one** deployment is active at any time – always the latest deployment. That deployment is accessible via any of your configured custom domains, routes, service bindings, schedules, and your optional workers.dev preview.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Only **one** deployment is active at any time. Currently this is the latest deployment. The active deployment is accessible via any of your configured custom domains, routes, service bindings, schedules, and your optional workers.dev preview.
```

You can view a list of your deployments in the Cloudflare dashboard under the **‘Deployments’** tab within any Worker’s detail view. You can also use the `wrangler deployments` command to list out the most recent deployments.

> ### Deployments are triggered by:
> * Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the Cloudflare dashboard
> * Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the API
> * Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the CLI via [wrangler publish](/workers/wrangler/commands#publish)

Reviewer 4: I would suggest adding a line break between headings and content.

```suggestion
### Deployments are triggered by:

* Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the Cloudflare dashboard
* Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the API
* Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the CLI via [wrangler publish](/workers/wrangler/commands#publish)
```

### Deployments consist of:
* `id`: A unique Cloudflare-generated identifier

> * `deployment_number`: An auto-incrementing integer indicating the deployment number

Reviewer 5: Should be just `number`.

> ### Deployments consist of:
> * `id`: A unique Cloudflare-generated identifier
> * `deployment_number`: An auto-incrementing integer indicating the deployment number
> * `metadata`: An object containing information about the deployment
> * `author_id` - A Cloudflare-generated unique identifier
> * `author_name` - A string representing the user or token information of the author of the deployment
> * `source` - A string representing the interface that was used to author the deployment. One of `["api" | "dash" | "wrangler" | "terraform" | "other"]`.
> * `created_on` - A timestamp indicating deployment date and time

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Deployments consist of : 

|   |   |   |   |   |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `id` | A unique Cloudflare-generated identifier |
| `deployment_number` | An auto-incrementing integer indicating the deployment number |
| `metadata` | An object containing information about the deployment |
| `author_id`  | A Cloudflare-generated unique identifier |
| `author_name`  | A string representing the user or token information of the author of the deployment |
| `source`  | A string representing the interface that was used to author the deployment. One of: `"api", "dash", "wrangler", "terraform", "other"`. |
| `created_on`  | A timestamp indicating deployment date and time |
```

If you see an unwanted change, you can always issue a new deployment using your interface of choice.

## Interacting with Deployments

> ### wrangler

Reviewer 4: I would suggest adding a line break between headings.

The [`wrangler deployments`](/workers/wrangler/commands#deployments) command will output information about the most recent deployments.

### Deployments in the dashboard

The Deployments tab of your Cloudflare dashboard will include information about historical deployments, and your Worker’s detail page will now indicate information about the most recently deployed and currently active deployment.

### Metadata binding

Deployment information is optionally available directly within your Worker code. This information is presented as a Metadata binding, and can be configured at any custom variable name. To configure in dashboard, head to your Worker > Settings > Variables > Metadata binding, and click ‘Add binding’. Optionally configure a variable name (e.g. CF_METADATA).

Once configured, your Worker will be able to access metadata on the specified variable name. For example:

```
export default {
	fetch(req, env, ctx) {
		return new Response(JSON.stringify(env.CF_METADATA.deployment.id))
	}
}
```

The Metadata binding object definition is as follows:

```
{
	name: string,
	deployment: {
		id: string,
		number: int,

> 		author_name: string,

Reviewer 5: No `author_name` in the metadata binding, let's start without it and see if users ask for it... Prefer to be careful when exposing this information.

source: string,

> timestamp: datetime

Reviewer 5: Fix indentation of these two lines above.

You can view a list of your deployments in the Cloudflare dashboard > **Workers** > **your Worker project** > **Deployments**. You can also use the `wrangler deployments` command to list out the most recent deployments.

Deployments are triggered by:

* Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the Cloudflare dashboard.
* Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the REST API.
* Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the CLI via [wrangler publish](/workers/wrangler/commands#publish).

## Interacting with Deployments

### wrangler publish

The [`wrangler publish`](/workers/wrangler/commands#publish) command will output the identifier of the newly generated deployment.

![wrangler publish](../media/wrangler-publish-output.png)

### wrangler deployments

The [`wrangler deployments`](/workers/wrangler/commands#deployments) command will output information about the most recent deployments.

![wrangler deployments](../media/wrangler-deployments-output.png)

### Deployments in the dashboard

> The Deployments tab of your Cloudflare dashboard will include information about historical deployments, and your Worker’s detail page will now indicate information about the most recently deployed and currently active deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Cloudflare dashboard, **Deployments** will show information about historical deployments. Your Worker’s detail page will now indicate information about the most recently deployed and currently active deployment.
```

What is the 'detail page'?

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Deployments
---

# Deployments

Deployments are a set of static historical ‘snapshots’ of your Worker. They include the code, configuration, and bindings associated with your Worker. A change to any of these will trigger a new deployment on Cloudflare’s network.

Only **one** deployment is active at any time. Currently this is the latest deployment. The active deployment is accessible via any of your configured custom domains, routes, service bindings, schedules, and your optional `workers.dev` preview.

You can view a list of your deployments in the Cloudflare dashboard under the **‘Deployments’** tab within any Worker’s detail view. You can also use the `wrangler deployments` command to list out the most recent deployments.

### Deployments are triggered by:

* Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the Cloudflare dashboard

> * Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the API

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the REST API
```

* Changes to a Worker’s bindings, code, or configuration in the CLI via [wrangler publish](/workers/wrangler/commands#publish)

> ### Deployments consist of : 

Reviewer 6: Hmm... this section, especially this early on, is a bit confusing to me.

Are you describing our internal data structure, or is this the shape of the data that as a developer I can consume?

It is not the the runtime binding API, because that's described later. Could you please clarify what this is. Also consider moving this section to later in the doc unless it's really critical part of the intro.

| `metadata.author_email`  | A string representing the user or token information of the author of the deployment |
| `metadata.source`  | A string representing the interface that was used to author the deployment. One of: `"api", "dash", "wrangler", "terraform", "other"`. |
| `metadata.created_on`  | A timestamp indicating deployment date and time |

If you see an unwanted change, you can always issue a new deployment using your interface of choice.

## Interacting with Deployments

### wrangler publish

The [`wrangler publish`](/workers/wrangler/commands#publish) command will output information about the most recent deployment created.

![wrangler publish](../media/wrangler-publish-output.png)

### wrangler deployments

The [`wrangler deployments`](/workers/wrangler/commands#deployments) command will output information about the most recent deployments.

![wrangler deployments](../media/wrangler-deployments-output.png)

### Deployments in the dashboard

The Deployments tab of your Cloudflare dashboard will include information about historical deployments, and your Worker’s detail page will now indicate information about the most recently deployed and currently active deployment.

> ### Metadata binding

Reviewer 6: I assume that we are temporarily removing / commenting out this part until we settle the binding discussion.

Author: yup!

Deployment information is optionally available directly within your Worker code. This information is presented as a Metadata binding, and can be configured at any custom variable name. To configure in dashboard, head to your Worker > Settings > Variables > Metadata binding, and click ‘Add binding’. Optionally configure a variable name (e.g. CF_METADATA).

Once configured, your Worker will be able to access metadata on the specified variable name. For example:

```
export default {
	fetch(req, env, ctx) {
		return new Response(JSON.stringify(env.CF_METADATA.deployment.id))
	}
}
```

The Metadata binding object definition is as follows:

```
{
	name: string,
	deployment: {
		id: string,
		timestamp: datetime
	}
}
```

> ## Triggering a new Deployment

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
## Creating a new Deployment
```

> New Deployments will be issued whenever you change code, configuration, or bindings.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
New Deployments will be created whenever you change code, configuration, or bindings.
```

Updates to code can be as small as a simple whitespace change. Any changes to code will trigger a new deployment.

Updates to bindings include a change to the value or variable name of a binding, or any CRUD operation on an individual binding. Notably, this does not include changes to the target resource itself – only the binding (e.g., changing the code of a Worker “B” that is connected via a Service binding from Worker “A” will not trigger a new deployment on Worker “A”).

Changes to configuration include:

* Changing a Worker’s usage model
* Changing a Worker’s secret or environment variable names and values

## Author and Source

When you deploy changes to your Worker, Cloudflare will track the user, token, or interface from which your code was last deployed. This is useful to understand and audit who or what is making changes to your applications.

> The author of a deployment is available in the Cloudflare dashboard, displayed after a wrangler publish, visible via [wrangler documentation](/workers/wrangler/commands#deployments) command, accessible in [Cloudflare’s API](https://api.cloudflare.com/), and optionally from your Worker code in the [Metadata binding](/workers/platform/deployments#metadata-binding).

Reviewer 6: is the last "optionally" part correct? I don't see author field in the runtime binding API.

Author: Not anymore, was pulled.
